Today, we're going to take Winson
through a bench press session and we're
going to measure his one rep max. How
heavy are you? 75 kilos. Let's see where
we go. So, it's a hypertrophy program.
The bodybuilding bench press
is a
hypertrophy exercise. The powerlifting
bench press is how I would test your max
in a powerlifting competition. It's not
how I would maximize muscle in the
pushing muscles.
It'll complement it along the line.
Now, today I like we can go
let's test the numbers super
accumulation.
Or I can say let's do bodybuilding
technique and then you're going to
change the whole thing for super
accumulation. Do you want to do the
powerlifting technique now?
Um Or do you want to do what you're
going to be doing on super accumulation?
This is
>> learning I've been learning powerlifting
technique under your Why don't we do
this? Let's do the powerlifting today.
Yeah. I'll use the powerlifting numbers
cuz I know how to calculate flat foot.
Yeah, cool. Uh and all that stuff. So,
let's just do um powerlifting style
the way that I like to teach it. What's
the calculation for powerlifting to
bodybuilding?
For everybody it's different.
But you could easily say I've got the
exact percentages
that I'd have to check with, but it's
kind of like
10% at least. So, if you can do a 100
kilo bench press with a powerlifting
style it's probably like 90 kilos
bodybuilding style.
Flat foot, flat back. Flat foot, flat
back is like flatter back. I'll always
want some degree of thoracic extension.
Yeah.
Do you know what I mean? So, it's not
just like you know, con- concave. I
don't want this. Yeah, yeah. I still
want chest up. So, thoracic extension.
We just don't have to bring the feet all
the way back to maximize the arch.
Okay, so um let's just do this how we
normally do it. So, you you just show me
how you bench.
Five reps.
Good.
Uh pretty good.
You know, we can maximize that, but
that's only like with you, you've got
great mobility. I'll only get
millimeters out of you, which I'm going
to. But what you did, I'll show you I'll
show you the difference, was great
position. So, you've got great
coordination, you've got great mobility,
but I'm going to milk more out of you.
The way that we do this,
we'll start you from scratch.
I'll show you the exact setup the way
that I teach.
Sit on the edge of the bench. That's the
start point. Yeah.
>> So that you don't bump your head on the
bar when you lay back. Good. So, lay
down. Now, I want you to slide back so
your head's off the bench. All the way
all the way all the way. Head off the
bench. Now, bring your feet back. Get on
the balls of the feet.
>> All right. So, this brings your feet
back further than where they were. When
you just set up there with your head in
the right position, you can't bring your
feet back that far. So, now we're
maximizing your position. So, you're not
sitting there comfortably just pressing
away. Yeah. You're going to be
uncomfortable. Yeah, this
All right. So, so the next thing as well
is I say with grip position, if you have
the coordination and the mobility, you
can go wider. So, you are what? Pinky on
the line? Yeah.
I would say yeah. So, let's go a little
bit wider. So, let's go middle finger on
the line. Middle finger.
>> Yeah, let's try that because I know that
you've got the mobility and the
coordination. Now, from here, your feet
aren't allowed to come forward. I want
you to push your heels down from here.
Now, slide slowly slowly. Just there.
Good. No no no no. See how you're up on
your tippy toes? No. Push your heels
down. Good.
>> Oh, okay. Good. Now, slide. Keep pushing
your heels down. There we go. Yeah. Come
come a bit further. Come a bit further.
Now,
okay, I'm going to turn you into the guy
that people hate. Yeah. Slide back.
Feet back.
>> More. Your mobility is excellent. I'm
looking at the sole of your foot. What I
want to maximize your levers is 45
degrees. So, heels down. Yeah. Slide to
me. Slide slowly slowly.
Heels down. Slowly. Keep coming a little
bit more a little bit more. Good. There.
There. There. So, now we've maximized
that arch. Now, from here, relax this.
Squeeze your shoulder blades back and
down. Screw. Good. Now, keep that there.
Keep that there. Keep that there. Keep
that there. Allow me to unrack. Shoulder
blades back and down. Shoulder blades
back and down. Hold your breath. Hold
your breath. Hold your breath.
Down and up.
Hit lower on your sternum. Hit lower on
your sternum. Good. Good. Don't thump it
when you lock it out. Good. Just Just
place it up there. Good. There we go.
Good.
Ooh, is that uncomfortable? Good.
Okay, so that's us
milking every millimeter out of you.
Yeah.
>> Right? So, that's maximizing your
position. Now, the next thing is
when you unrack, there's two things.
There's the unrack, and then there's the
lockout of your bench press. You're
accentuating that lockout, which takes
you into protraction. Keep it back.
Okay. So, watch this. A lot of people
go, "I want to be explosive." So, they
go, "Whack!" And that takes you out of
position. Don't do that. It's It's here.
Okay. More delicate.
Like, if you stand up out of a chair,
you don't just jump in it. Yeah, cuz I
want to be explosive. Right. Just do it
like you're standing. You just stand.
Yeah. Which is control.
Okay.
Like, that's fast.
I just don't look Boom. I'm not taking
myself out of position to do that. It's
control. Tight. Control. Tight. Are you
exaggerating out of the hole like you
would in a squat? No, because it's a
pause in a bench press.
>> Yeah.
Okay? So, the thing is with a squat, I
use that stretch reflex. With a bench
press, no. And you're also slamming it
on your chest, and it's just bouncing,
and it's gross. Different rules. Okay.
Okay? So, it's not really stretch reflex
in that same way. We are maximizing
tension. Yeah. Okay? And And there is a
kind of like kind of a rebound. I do
want to see those same rules, where it's
not like a flat basketball. Mhm. You
know what I mean? Yeah. So, with your
squat, it I don't want to look like a
and grind. Yeah. Yeah. It's got to look
like a
Yeah.
a small bounce. I don't know how many
meters per second. Same with off the
chest in a bench press. If it's slow off
the chest, it's an indicator that you're
not maintaining tension. Now, I'll tell
you how to maintain tension in a bench
press.
Heels down, shoulders back and down. So,
the feet back and heels down and that
position, that's the tension. If you
master that, if you got a loose here,
that's collapsed.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And there's no more tension
here. And that's when it's weak off the
chest. If you've maximized that
position, so shoulders back and down and
heels down, you've maximized that up.
That's tightly wound from start to
finish.
>> Yeah. Okay. That's how you maximize
tension. The setup is the hard part.
Yeah. Pressing it off the chest If you
got that, you'll just be like, "Oh."
True. Wow.
Right. Now, here's the thing. With the
unrack as well, you are very aggressive
off the unrack. Yeah. You're protracting
to unrack. Yeah.
There's a skill because that's natural
movement is you do want to protract when
you do this action. But in a bench
press, I don't want your shoulders to
come forward in a bench press. Yeah. The
reason for that is you're laying on a
bench. Yeah. And if your shoulders come
forward,
the bench is restricting you from
bringing your shoulders back. So, you
have to start with your shoulders back.
And never don't leave the retraction.
>> Exactly.
Because under maximum If you're a
bodybuilder and you're doing light
weights, you can move your shoulders.
But when you're doing one rep max, you
can't move your shoulder blades anymore.
You're stuck. You're fighting for dear
life.
>> Mhm. Do you know what I mean? So, if you
protract for the unrack with one arm
loads, you're going to bring it down.
Your shoulder blades want to come down
as you're bringing it down. But the
bench you're laying on stops that from
happening. Mhm.
Yeah. Okay? Now, now, why do I want it
in that position then? Because that's
the most compromising position when the
bar's on your chest.
>> Mhm. That's where pecs tear. Cuz it's
stretched.
>> That's the That's the heart Exactly.
That's where the muscle's the most
stretched. That's when it's the easiest
to tear. Right? So, therefore, when
you're in the most compromised position,
that's where I want to protect the most.
>> Yeah. So, what's the correct shoulder
position when the barbell's on your
chest?
Retracted. So, let's start this from the
beginning. Yeah. Okay. Let's do that
again.
>> It's different because so much in
calisthenics is like protraction. Like
everything is protraction. But I
understand that cuz I've seen your dip
and that's how you protect your
shoulders with your dip. Yeah. However,
the difference with a dip and a bench
press is you're not laying on a board
that's restricting natural scapular
movement.
>> Mhm. You can control scapular position
in the dip. Yeah. You can't control
scapular position here to the same
degree. All right, let's go. Let's do it
again. Sitting on the edge. Lay down.
Slide back. Head off the bench. Feet all
the way back. Feet all the way back.
Heels down. Keep them down and slide.
Middle finger?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
Good. Heels down hard. Now, keep the
shoulders back. Now, you take a big
breath and that's when we unrack.
Shoulders back. Shoulders back.
Shoulders back. Shoulders back. Hold.
Control down and drive. Control down and
drive. That's too high on your sternum.
Lower.
Lower on your sternum. Drive. Good.
One more. Control
and drive. Good. Excellent.
How was the the contraction? It's great.
It's controlled. Yeah. It's tension.
Yeah. You don't need explosive. Yeah.
I've worked with people
that were professional rugby players and
they're taught by their rugby coaches to
be explosive cuz that's what S&C coaches
teach their athletes. Yeah. And I watch
them explode in the bench press and
every single rep they're taking their
shoulders out of position and I look at
it like, "Why are you doing that?"
"Because I'm trying to be explosive."
That makes sense. Yeah. Okay, cool.
Let's be explosive when you need to be
explosive. Let's treat the bench press
like a bench press. When you're
explosive and taking your shoulder
blades out of position, it is weaker.
Yeah. So, I've taught them to slow it
down and maintain position and by doing
that I've allowed them to bench press
more. So, what's more beneficial? Being
explosive cuz you want to be explosive?
You're treating the exercise with the
wrong technique.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so So, just separate
it. We separate it.
>> Yeah. like training a martial artist by
adding weight to your hand and practice
punching.
That's not the move that you do. You
want to practice punching, punch a heavy
bag, punch a person. Yeah. You want to
strengthen the push pattern? Use the
correct technique on the push pattern.
>> Yeah. Separate it. So, if you want to
teach explosion, be explosive. Yeah. But
be explosive on explosive exercises.
>> Yeah, okay. Like a jump or a throw.
Yeah.
Bench press isn't that. Yeah. Okay,
you're laying on a It's a specific
technique and we've got to allow that
like we're laying on a bench that's
stopping our body from moving the way
that we want to explode. What's your
best bench, Winson? Uh 160. [__] Okay,
recently? Recently 140 142. Okay.
So, it's still pretty good. Now, now,
slide back. More. Feet back. Good. Heels
down. Slowly slide them in. Heels out.
Heels down. Heels down. Heels down.
Okay. Scaps back hard. I'll go again.
Good.
Scaps back as hard as they go. Keep that
position. Okay, take a big breath.
Scaps back Scaps back Scaps back harder.
Good.
Control. Control and drive.
Beautiful. That's it.
Cool. That feels
That was really nice.
>> So stable.
>> That was really nice. Now, one thing
that I noticed that you did
>> Yeah.
which I reckon you did that from
calisthenics.
You internally rotated as soon as you
un-racked. Yeah.
That's flared elbows. I wanted to go
bulldog grip, but
>> Yeah, with the hand, but then externally
rotate the elbow.
>> right. Right. So, bulldog grip starts
from the start. Yeah. Right? That's
That's where we got internal rotation.
But then from here it's externally
rotate. What you did,
>> saw it. As soon as you un-racked, you
just went donk. Yeah. It's like, oi.
That's going to force your elbows to
flare. Yeah, okay.
He- here. So, that's what you're doing
naturally by touching high on your
sternum. Right.
>> That's good for bodybuilding. That cre-
increases tension on the pec. I don't
want you to increase tension on your
pec. Yeah.
I want you to put your pec the
mid-range. That's mid-range. This is
full stretch because we're abducting our
humerus to 90°. That's like flared
elbows. That's maximal stretch on the
pec.
That's taking your pec to the a weaker
position. It's great for hypertrophy to
take it to a full stretch, but for
strength, mid-range is the strongest
contraction. So, the way that we place
it in the mid-range is by tucking the
elbow slightly, not all the way. That
takes the pecs out altogether. That's a
tricep exercise. So, for heavy bench
press, one RM, place the pec in the
mid-range.
So, this is where This is where you're
saying like I I want to come down to
here.
Bit higher. Like Yeah, there there.
There. Like just underneath the the line
of your pec. Typically, because when you
arch, that's also the highest point.
Do you know what I mean? So, it's like
for everyone that's different. It's hard
to say you got to hit that spot because
your the length of your upper arm
and some people are really short, short
upper arm, massive arch, and it suits
them to press high on their sternum.
Because the range of motion is so short.
So, that's the bench experts that you
see in powerlifting competition that are
short. They actually have their elbows
flared because it's a minimal range of
motion.
Big rib cage. Right.
It's not just that it's a big rib cage.
That's extended thoracic to like
contortionist style. So, massive arch.
Yeah, which yeah, can be translated to
big rib cage as well. If I'm tucking my
elbows in a little bit more, is that a
little bit more shoulder, would you say?
Yes, by default. It's a little bit more
shoulder because we are now doing a
little bit less pec. So, when your
elbows are more flared, it's more pec.
The more of one muscle, the less of the
others. So, tucking all the way is less
pec again. So, therefore, it's more
shoulder and more tricep. What are the
three major push muscles? Pecs, triceps,
delts. I want you to spread the load
evenly, 33.3 recurring on each. How do I
do that? It's not going to be precise,
but listen to it this way. The more we
flare the elbows, the higher the
percentage on pecs, therefore lower
percentage everywhere else. Yeah. Yeah.
The more we tuck the elbows to
completely tucked, that's going to be
reducing the pecs to way less than 33%.
So, therefore, a lot higher on triceps
and delts. So, how do I get perfect
balance between all of them? That's what
we want to try and master. How do I do
it? So, that's where I say kind of
mid-range. You got to find that sweet
spot. Mid-range. That's where I'm
getting perfect balance between pecs,
deltoids, and triceps.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, cool.
>> So, same same principle as as everything
else.
>> As when I was saying with the
quadriceps. The more we bring our feet
in, the less we use our adductors. So,
it's not as if that's how you use more
quads. We're using more quads because
feet in turns adductors off. Yeah.
Right? And then the more we stand wider,
the more we're spreading the load over
more muscles, which are adductors. So,
and then you just take you take this
principle and then you go, "Okay, so in
a bodybuilding, and if I want to isolate
more,
then we know exactly how to isolate."
Exactly.
Exactly. For bodybuilding, we want to
isolate muscles. We want to be less
efficient.
For powerlifting or strength
competition, I want to spread the load
over as much muscle as possible. Yeah.
Yeah. So,
>> Which is being more efficient, which is
not good for bodybuilding. In
calisthenics is is is a lot of the same.
I almost think about it like this. The
best dippers activate their back so they
have a stronger position.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I see. And it's it's like a
it's the it's almost the antagonist
thing that you want to do.
>> Yeah, it's the opposing muscles to
stabilize. So, the prime movers
Yeah. can do their job. Slide back.
Feet back. More. Feet back more. Good.
Drive the heels down hard. Slide into
position.
Good. Good. Scaps back and down. Scaps
back and down hard. Good. Big breath.
Scaps back. Scaps back. Scaps back.
Hold.
Sternum.
Good. And rack. Nice.
Yeah, bro.
That's the strongest bench press I've
ever felt.
That looks effortless.
>> Yeah.
Now, You're all right. It's like the
hard part is the setup. Yeah. The push
is like Yeah. It's just like so much
effort goes into here. I remember
demonstrating with an empty barbell and
then the whole class making fun of me
going, "Look how unfit you are. You're
puffing out and your face is red just
from the setup." It's like, "No, it's
not that it's a light weight. Yeah. The
effort went into the setup." Yeah. So,
the way that I see this as well is, bro,
this is my setup.
You're more mobile than me. So, this
rack height, I reckon we need to go
lower. Okay. Okay? And I reckon we can
come back a little bit further.
All right. Okay?
So, how
The thing is it's the same arch, but
your body position's here. Your eyes are
under the barbell, which means I can
you're reaching back further to unrack.
Yeah. I want your mouth under the
barbell. Yeah.
Because you've got a very nice refined
bar path, it's just going down and up.
The reason why we go so far away from
that from the unrack is so we don't bump
this thing. Yeah. You're not close to
that.
Yeah. Right? So, this is what I'm going
to do. Can you do me a favor? Just lift
that bar. Yeah.
Good. Bring in the rack height down cuz
you have
one of I can say that arch that people
are going to hate you for,
but it's legal. Yeah. It's how you'd win
a powerlifting competition. Like if you
said to me, "I got to win a bench press
comp." This is what I'd make you do.
Okay.
Maximize your arch. Eventually I want a
200 kilo bench.
You can do that. If you did 160 with
your bodybuilder style,
>> Yeah.
bro,
this is what the powerlifting technique
can do. Yeah. It's a 10-year goal. Yeah.
I I think it can be done for sure based
on the fact that I know you've done 160.
Yeah. At what body weight? 70 73.
Right. With what technique? Flat foot?
Uh it was it was arched.
>> Yeah. But it wasn't it wasn't like that.
>> was not like that.
>> What was the grip position?
Narrow.
Hold Show me on the bar.
It's like it's this. Yeah. So, okay. So,
thumbs on the line. So, check this out.
So, that's thumbs on the line. That's
where a lot of people start out and it's
like that feels like it's the right
position.
I've got him here
with that. So, that's a big difference,
but then eventually
You got to go wider again. Even wider?
You bro, you've got the mobility to do
it. So, so grip width is more about
mobility, thoracic mobility, and scapula
coordination. Okay. Not just about how
big you are. So, the biggest bencher in
the world, um Julius Maddox, he has a
closer grip, but he has no arch or a
very minimal arch.
>> Right. Bad mobility. Bad mobility.
Right? So, that's why for him, if he
went wide, his his shoulders are like
that. And if he went wide,
Yeah.
>> That's [__] To to go wide, you need
this position. See the difference
between here and here?
Mhm. That just looks uncomfortable. That
is uncomfortable. Mhm. To go wide, you
need to be able to bring your sternum up
high and bring your scaps back and down
hard. And then it's just a beautiful
lever. Yeah, right.
>> Which you have naturally. Yeah, cool.
You know what I mean? It's not as if oh,
that's too wide, I need to condition the
muscles.
You need to condition the muscles if you
lack the ability to achieve the
position, which you don't.
Now, we'll see what 140 looks like. This
could be the limit, I don't know. It's a
big jump, but [__] that 120 just looked
too clean. All right. Let's lock in,
bro.
So, we're going to a slightly different
setup. So, we're going to We're refining
the hell out of your setup now. So, it's
it's Yeah. Eyes like that. See where you
are now? That's barbell in line with
your mouth. That's where I want you to
end. Oh, okay. Okay? So, that when you
unrack it, you're not bringing it out
that far. Okay, so let's put your middle
finger on the line.
Yep. Good. Slide back further, bro. I
want you to slide back further. Good.
Bring your feet back further. Bring your
feet back further. Oh. Good. Heels down.
Yep. Good. Slide.
Good. Perfect. Perfect. Heels down hard.
Heels down hard. Take a big breath.
Scaps. Scaps. Scaps. Scaps. Scaps. Good.
Hold your breath.
Scaps. Scaps.
Oh, that's my mistake.
Hold on.
Okay. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Jump
off. Jump off. Okay.
Now.
Rushed. Lost tension. Spoke to me.
You said, "Yep." Yep. I know that's
annoying for you.
But
here's the rules with the unrack. You
can't exhale. You just My hands are on
here because you're not in position yet.
You're trying to rush it because you
want to spend less time here. No.
Position. Precision. Yeah. Yeah. You're
not in position. That's why my hands is
still on the bar. You're holding it out
here. If I let go, it's going to go
Yeah. You need it stacked over the
joints. So that's why I'm still here. I
can I'm very good at unraking. Yeah.
Okay. I can see you're not in position.
Yeah. So I'm still holding it and you're
going, "Hurry up. I want to do this."
>> Yeah. Yeah. So you go, "Yep." Which
means exhale. You You lost tension. And
then you dumped it. I hardly ever have
someone unrack me. Yeah. I can tell.
Yeah. So unraking
is a skill. Yeah. And being unraked for
is also kind of like you need to
understand and let's put the 10 on. So
we're going to go 130.
So
getting unraked, am I holding any
Am I actually trying to help you?
>> No. Not at all.
>> Well, yeah. You You Your job is to
maintain retraction depression of the
scapulas. Right. And if anything, you're
just doing that with your elbows.
If you try and go, push, you're out of
position. That's my job. So, the perfect
un-racker takes that weight like this
carefully. That's all. See that
movement? It's just this.
To clear this rack.
>> All right. Okay. That All you're doing
is you're maintaining If you go like
this
Yeah. Yeah. out of position. It's like,
"No, no, no, no. Don't do that." That's
why I'm screaming at you. I'm not
screaming, but I'm saying to you, "Scaps
back. Scaps back." because you're going
for the un-rack. Do not Yeah. fight for
that position. Fight for that position
and I'm going to bring you from here to
here.
Yeah, right. And this is why you want me
closer so that so that it's literally
that that Okay.
>> The further back that is, the more you
have to protract your scapulas to
achieve that position. Okay. Let's get
in. Now, you understand what I said.
Breath hold. Maximum breath hold. Do not
exhale. This is when I'm going to
un-rack. When you go like this
Yeah. and you and you close your mouth,
that's when I lift. And when I lift,
I've got the weight. I promise you.
Now, I've got the weight, so your focus
is on heels down, scaps back and down.
Let's do this again. And lower the
weight under control. Don't just dump it
to your chest. You lost all tension. You
were a flat basketball at that point.
Winston, watch me. Go narrow. TENSION.
BOOM. That's you. Tension. Boom. Not
Cool.
Let's go.
Slide back. Slide back further. Slide
back further. Good. Feet back. Heels
down hard.
Slide into position. Scaps back as hard
as I go.
Keep them there. Keep them there. Scaps.
Scaps Scaps Scaps Scaps Scaps Scaps
Scaps Scaps Scaps harder.
Scaps hard. Scaps hard. Scaps hard.
Let's go. Heels down. Heels down.
Good.
That was okay.
That was fast, but it was wobbly. Yeah.
Where was it wobbly? The bar path went
this way. Yeah. Yeah. This way. So, I
want the bar path to come this way.
Yeah. Okay. Okay? Now,
interesting that you are an expert at
dipping.
Mhm. Where do you push in a dip? Down.
>> Yeah.
Down. Where do we push in a bench press?
Back.
Okay? Mhm. There's a difference. So,
your natural body just goes
boom, that's where I got to push. Yeah.
Okay?
>> If you look at like my normal sets,
Yeah.
and everyone says bar path should be up
and back,
you'd be disgusted with how like how
straight it is.
I'm not saying it should be up and back.
It's a natural bar path that will align
with the base of support, Right. which
is the elbow.
So, when you went like that, so watch me
from side on. When you do that, it's not
in
the elbows in not underneath the bar
anymore cuz you're pushing down. The
elbows not underneath the bar.
So, from here, the bar must be in line
with the elbow from start to finish,
which
on the chest is online with in line with
the sternum. But, because the elbows are
tucked, it's not in line with the
shoulder. So, watch this. It goes from
here to when I lock it out, it will be
in line with the shoulder. So, that's
the natural bar path. It is a slight
curve upwards from the sternum to the
shoulder. That's as far as that bar
curve will go. Yeah.
So, I don't teach people to follow up
and back. Yeah, yeah.
>> For you, I have to because your natural
bar path is down. Yeah. But, otherwise,
it's just a natural push. Elbow must be
stacked underneath that all time. Yeah.
That's where it's going. I believe in
you.
You have coordination, and now you need
to separate.
So, what are we doing now? 135. We went
120, 140 cuz the 120 flew.
Mhm. Right? So, and I looked at that and
said,
I know that Winston has the strength to
do 140.
But, this is what I talk about when you
introduce a new technique, you've got to
do it gently. Yeah. Because he just went
back to he resorted back to his
strength, which is dump and drive. So, I
said, "No, no, no, no, no. You didn't
just warm up that way." There's a whole
new technique now.
Okay? So, what we need to do is make it
seamless. Make the jump smaller. So,
brought it back to 130, which he did.
The next thing, he now knows he's got
trust in 130 with that technique. Now,
135 is easier to trust.
So, we go 135 and hope it moves the same
way. I'm going to put the timer on.
Uh wait up. Wait up. Wait up. Where's my
uh
Where's my phone?
There. There.
It's right behind you. Ah, beauty.
Now, Winson, take your time. Take your
time, okay? When I unrack for you,
you're going to be stacked here.
Stacked. So, I don't want you to get
impatient and go, like, "I've got this.
Hurry up and get the [__] off." I will
leave the moment it's stacked perfectly.
We need precision.
Yeah.
>> Okay? Just trust that. The moment I let
go of my hands,
Yeah. I'm going to say, "Yep."
Cool.
Stay patient, brother. Stay patient.
Tension. Tension. Let's go. Slide back.
Slide back. Further. Further. Further.
Further. Good. Feet back. Feet back.
No rush. Heels out. Feet back. Feet
back. Stop inching them forward. Good.
Heels down.
Good. Perfect. Heels down hard. Heels
down hard. Scaps back. Even harder.
Scaps.
Scaps. Scaps. Scaps. Scaps. Scaps.
Scaps. Scaps. Hard. Scaps.
Good.
Oi. Bro. That felt good. Dude.
If you don't get 140, that does not make
sense. Let's have a look.
And I'm going to show you where else you
went wrong. Okay. When I say slide back,
I'm going to show you why
I'm saying slide back.
Uh you can't really see, but your eyes
were
in line with the bar. Right. Your mouth
I wanted in line with it. You're too far
down. Where I'm having to unrack, I'm
take You're out of position. Yeah. We
can refine it. It feels comical. You'll
just be like
Yeah. rather than what you're used to,
which is taking out of position. We need
to maximize efficiency. Anyway, let's
have a look at how easy
you just threw 135 with a protracted
scap to unrack.
Okay?
Did you go for the second one, too?
You should have. And then just go
Mhm. And sink harder. Sink harder. Sink
harder. There. So, when we unrack, when
I hand this to you, you're going to go
No, don't [__] punch that hard.
Press.
Don't do it slow. It's press.
Press. There. Press.
Press.
Press. Good.
Okay. Press. There we go. Don't thump it
out of position. Yeah, yeah. 26 33. So,
that's been 7 minutes. I say minimum
eight. Don't think that it's a big
weight and we've got to do anything
different. No, we've just got to do the
same thing. We want precision. Let's go,
brother.
Let's go. Lie down.
Slide back.
Head all the way off the bench.
Head all the way off. Good. Feet all the
way back. Further. Further. Further.
Further. Further. Good. Drive those
heels down hard.
Go a bit further. Good. Scaps back as
hard as they go. Squeeze them back.
Heels down as hard as they go.
Massive breath.
Scap. Scap. Scap. Scap. Scap. Scap.
Scap. Scap. Scap. Scap. Hold.
Control.
Drive back.
YEAH.
EASY.
>> BOY, THAT FELT
TOO EASY. It was too easy.
Yeah, bro. Nice work.
Dude.
Yo, that's the best my bench press has
ever felt. That felt like
uneventful how
easy that was. Had a look.
It looked
Ooh, almost a [__] double body weight
bench press.
But we will be coming back here
and you'll be doing that to [__] 160
when you finish this, bro.
Oi.
Oi, all right.
That looks like the bone I was talking
about. Right. It felt like that. Right.
How nice was that?
You know, it I mean, it all clicked.
Like
in terms of like trusting you with the
un-racks as well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> like
I'm not I'm not trying to get myself
>> trying to rush it. Yeah.
I think that's what happened the first
time is I was like, "Hurry up." Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. And you said it like, "Yep."
Yeah. I'm like
Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like normally, I
have to do it myself. Yeah. I know. I
know. I know. Trying to get it. Yeah.
You've got to build the trust. Yeah. As
well.
Yeah, cool.
Sick. Do you want to do more?
Um let's let's This is what I like to do
is I like to take our gains and [__]
run. Okay. You know what I mean? Yeah. I
like to walk out of the session knowing
I could have done more. Okay. Than going
So this is where I like to I would have
wanted to do with the squat but I had a
bone to pick with that 140.
Hey bro, you just squatted what you
bench. You bench what you squatted.
It's just so sad.
This is why we wear pants.
That's why we wear long pants. So we
could either say that's a weak squat or
that's a strong bench. We'll go with the
strong bench, all right? I'm I'm going
to I'm going to hide behind my knee
surgery, all right?
>> But your quads are big though, bro. Oh,
yeah.
Anyway, that's good. That's a lot of
work for the day. Yeah. Let's let's
leave it there, all right?
How you feeling?
Tanked. A little bit. Yeah. That's
that's a lot of [__]
mental fatigue as well. Okay, cool. What
we're going to do is,
you know, we're just going to have to
trust the [__] deadlift. Yeah.
You want to deadlift? No. Yeah. No, no,
no.
We're just going to We're We'll figure
it out because your snatch grip deadlift
from a deficit Yeah. Um we're going to
start with the conservative number.
Okay. Okay. Uh it has to be half of your
[__] max. And less, sorry, 45% of
your max.
>> Mhm.
Okay. So, what we're going to do watch
this space. Watch this space. I think
that was a good session testing for a
bench and squat. In my opinion, the most
important lifts.
Yeah. And, you know, I know for you, you
do know what your dips and your
uh muscle-ups are and your pull-ups.
Okay, so we don't have to test that now.
You're the expert in that field.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um so then, what we're
going to do is decide on what we're what
the program will be for super
accumulation and what the start numbers
are going to be and how to progress
every session. You're going to get your
photos off with your sexy [__] body
out.
Right. And then you're going to have a
before and after photo. You're going to
have your DEXA scan before and after.
Yeah.
And um and hopefully we can come back
here and retest these numbers and slap a
little bit of extra weight on it. Yeah,
good. Love it. Where can my audience
find you? Winston Lam, double M double M
at Instagram.
And I'm going to write this in the
comments section. Hope you enjoyed it.